## Understanding Basic Network Terms

##### 1) What is your public IP address right now, and how did you find it?

Terminal (mac) **`curl ifconfig.me`**  
Public IP (CBA) **5.179.80.204**  
Public IP (Home) **188.177.124.23**

The public IP address is a unique identifier to locate a specific router.

<br>
##### 2) What is your private IP address right now (do this both at home and in school), and who/what gave you that address?

Command Line (pc) **```ipconfig```**  
Terminal (mac) **```ifconfig |grep inet```**  
Private IP (CBA) **10.50.131.60**  
Private IP (Home) **192.168.0.12**

The private IP address is delegated by the router. The router has a public IP address and every machine connected to it has a private.

<br>
##### 3) What’s special about these address ranges? 10.0.0.0 – 10.255.255.255, 172.16.0.0 – 172.31.255.255 and 192.168.0.0 – 192.168.255.255?

*These ranges are reserved private IPv4 addresses.* 

Computers not connected to the Internet, such as factory machines that communicate only with each other via TCP/IP, does'nt need globally unique IP addresses.

<br>
##### 4) What’s special about this ip-address: 127.0.0.1?

**127.0.0.1** is the localhosts IP address. When you operate on your machine the machine itself has the localhost IP address.

<br>
##### 5) What kind of service would you expect to find on a server using these ports: 22, 23, 25, 53, 80, 443?

| PORT | SERVICE | DESCRIBTION |
| - | - | - |
| 22 | SSH | Secure shell |
| 23 | Telnet | Login service & unencrypted text messages |
| 25 | SMTP | Simple mail transfer protocol |
| 53 | DNS | Domain name system |
| 80 | HTTP | Hypertext transfer protocol |
| 443 | HTTPS | HTTPS over TLS/SSL |

<br>
##### 6) What is the IP address of studypoints.dk and how did you find it?

Command Line (pc) **```tracert studypoints.dk```**  
Terminal (mac) **```traceroute studypoints.dk```**  
IP Address **165.227.137.75**

https://165.227.137.75/#/view1

<br>
##### 7) If you write https://studypoints.dk in your browser, how did “it” figure out that it should go to the IP address you discovered above?

Command Line (pc) **```nslookup studypoints.dk```**  
Terminal (mac) **```nslookup studypoints.dk```**

DNS converts domain names to Internet Protocols (IP). This is send as a request or response through TCP.

<br>
##### 8) Explain shortly the purpose of an ip-address and a port-number and why we need both

IP addresses are used to identify the machines. This helps the network transfering data to the correct machine. 

Port-numbers is delegated to several programs in order to send and get data. Google Chrome uses port 80 and 443 is most commonly used by HTTPS.

<br>
##### 9) What is your (nearest) DNS server,?

My router. Every router contains a DNS server.

Terminal (man) **`nslookup example.com`**
DNS Server **193.162.153.164**

<br>
##### 10) What is (conceptually) the DNS system and the purpose with a DNS Server?

Its basic job is to turn a user-friendly domain name like **stephandjurhuus.com** into an Internet Protocol (IP) address like **165.227.145.35**

<br>
##### 11) What is your current Gateway, and how did you find it?

Terminal (mac) **```netstat -nr | grep '^default'```**  
Gateaway address **192.168.0.1**

<br>
##### 12) What is the address of your current DHCP-Server, and how did you find it?

Terminal (mac) **```ipconfig getoption en0 server_identifier ```**  
DHCP-Server **192.168.0.1**

<br>
##### 13) Explain (conceptually) about the TCP/IP-protocol stack

**TCP** is a package manager thats substance the **IP** packages and makes sure that the package is delivered correct and in order. 

<br>
##### 14) Explain about the HTTP Protocol (the following exercises will go much deeper into this protocol)

The **HTTP** is a protocol thats handles data sended between web-servers and sites. A HTTP will always contain a request and response. 

<br>
##### 15) Explain (conceptually) how HTTP and TCP/IP are connected (what can HTTP do, and where does it fit into TCP/IP)

The request and response from the **HTTP** contains **IP Packages** thats delegated through the **TCP**.
