# Exercise - JPA Entity Mappings -1

[*back to index*](../../index.md)

<div class="sidebar">
<h3 id="sb-title">Table of Content</h3>
<a class="toc-ref" href="#describtion">Describtion</a><br>
<a class="toc-ref" href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a><br>
<div id="sidebar-bars"><i class="fa fa-bars"></i></div>
</div>
<div class="break"><br></div>

### Describtion

These exercises will investigate a great deal of the most useful Object-Entity mappings available in JPA. You should however, be aware of that the amount possible annotations are enormous. For this exercise we will create the tables from the Entity classes, so we know exactly what we do. At the end however, you should create a new project and its entity classes from the tables generated by this exercise. This will show you a great deal of those annotations we haven’t used (because we are using default values)

### Getting Started

1. Create a new plain (Maven) java application, and add the packages: entity, test and enums
In the test package, add a class Tester including a main method. Create a test method in this class from which we will do all interactions with the Entity Manager.

2. Create a local MySQL database

3. Create an Entity class, Book with only one field (apart from the id) title. Use GenerationType.IDENTITY to let the     database generate ids automatically (using AUTO_INCREMENT).
  Make sure you understand why you are requested to use GenerationType.IDENTITY and not one of the others.

4. Include the MySQL JDBC Driver to the project. (if it wasn’t included in step 3a)
  Right Click dependencies → Add Dependency  → Type "mysql-connector-java" in the Query Text Field  → Select the newest version 5.1.39 (will save your for a lot of time-zone related problems) of the Driver.
  Open the pom-file to see how the dependency was added to the file.

5. in your test method, create an EntityManager (use the slides if you need hints)
  For all of these exercises, you should (initially) select the Drop and Create strategy in your persistence.xml file

6. In the test package, add a new class SchemaBuilder and provide the class with a main(..) method.
Add this line to the method: Persistence.generateSchema("NAME_OF YOUR_PU", null);
You can recreate your database whenever you like, by running this method. But just using your Entity-classes,  will ALSO create the database if Create or Drop and Create was choses.

### Auto generation of Ids and MySQLs AUTO_INCREMENT

7. Add a few books to the project and verify that we can find them using the entity manager.
Verify that a matching table has been created, and populated with data.

Now, add a new folder scripts to "src/main/resources" as sketched to the right, and add a file data.sql to the folder.
Use plain SQL to insert a number of Books in the file as sketched below:

```SQL
INSERT INTO BOOK (TITLE) VALUES ('book-3');
SET @book1 = LAST_INSERT_ID();
INSERT INTO BOOK (TITLE) VALUES ('book-4');
SET @book2 = LAST_INSERT_ID();
```

Add the following line to your persistence.xml file:
`<property name="javax.persistence.sql-load-script-source" value="scripts/data.sql"/>`
Re-run the project and observe/explain the id's found in the Book table.

8. Add a new entity class Customer, initially only with a firstName and lastName property and using the GenerationType.Identity strategy.
Add the necessary SQL to the data.sql script to add a few customers.
Re-run the project and verify that you can find the new customers.

### Enums

9. Provide the customer with a list of hobbies as sketched below:
`private List<String> hobbies = new ArrayList();`
And the methods:  `addHobby(String s)` and `String getHobbies()` (return a comma separated list with all hobbies) 

10. Test and verify how the list is stored by the Customer table
Do you like what you see?
If not, add the following annotation to the hobbies List (do it anyway ;-)
`@ElementCollection()`

Regenerate (run the project) tables and observe the result. I assume you agree, this looks at lot better ;-)

**Yellow/Red** But what if you don’t like the names of the generated table and its column names. 
Remember, by default, JPA uses convenience over configuration and supplies default values for everything you don’t supply. But YOU NOT JPA should be in control, to make a perfect database. Use info on this link and add the necessary  annotations so the name of the new class is hobbies, the column with the foreign key is named Customer_ID and the column with the actual hobby is named HOBBY.

### Maps of Basic Types


